hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is a relatively late review of
the HP omen it took me a lot longer to
get this review unit in than I thought
it would and when it came in last week I
actually thought maybe I'm not gonna do
it but you know what it's better late
than never
or so I thought so here it is now if for
whatever reason you guys feel like I
shouldn't do older products like this
well relatively older products like this
let me know in the comments below and
I'll do my best to just avoid doing
relatively older products like this I
understand
okay so HP's notebooks for the past
couple of years I have found them very
boring to be honest they're visually
unexcited spec wise they're not very
exciting I've actually found no reason
to even be interested in them let alone
purchase one for myself but when the
omen was announced in November last year
I thought it was pretty cool it's got a
very unique styling spec wise was pretty
good so I thought I'd check it out
here's my review so if you've seen my
other videos I like cool packaging and
the omen has cool packaging the box is a
trapezoid and it has pretty nice-looking
sleeve so you can slide that sleeve off
and you open up that box and the
notebook looks pretty cool in there and
underneath that is a box where they put
the AC adapter and some other
accessories I think the presentation of
this notebook is really nice so the
specs of the unit I'm reviewing it's got
a 2.5 gigahertz i7 16 gigs of ram a 256
gig SSD at gtx 860m and a regular 1080p
screen but the cool part about this is
the price unlike more glamorous brands
like Apple and Razer Hewlett Packard
products actually go on sale once in a
while so you can often save one or two
hundred bucks on this product at big box
stores like Best Buy
this particular unit cost 1600 bucks on
sale and so while we're staying at the
lid of the notebook here let's take a
closer look at the details so when you
pierre really closely at it it's got an
alternating pattern of these small
triangles i think it's simple and it
works pretty well the bottom of the
notebook is also plastic so it's got
these vents on the bottom and there's
two fans underneath that draw the air in
there is an SD slot here but we'll talk
about that later I want to talk about
this rubber rim that lines the perimeter
of the bottom of the notebook so if you
look at it you'll notice that aside from
the gap in the rubber at the front
in the back this rim almost makes a full
seal and it kind of prevents the cool
air from getting sucked into the intake
vent I wish they put a few more gaps
into this rubber rim just so that more
air could get into there but we'll get
into temperatures later HP says you can
technically open this up to access the
internals but it's not user friendly
like there's no screws and things like
that you basically have to peel stuff
off and kind of ruin adhesives so I
didn't bother with that the HP omen
weighs a little bit less than 4.7 pounds
it's a little longer than a retina
MacBook Pro about an inch or so longer
but similar in width in terms of its
thickness The Omen is a little bit
thicker maybe about a quarter inch or so
and in this shot you can kind of see the
design here the whole notebook has this
trapezoidal kind of taper to it on the
back of the notebook you can see the
chrome hinge with the blue ends and you
can also see the exhaust vents and all
the ports here's a closer look at that
blue hinge so my guess is that they were
trying to mimic the look of a titanium
car exhaust I mean it's not for everyone
but I think they did a pretty good job
to make it look good and I think it
gives the whole notebook a very distinct
look the easy adapter is quite big and
for Holly redditors here's a banana for
scale it's a hundred and eighty watt
adapter so basically all the ports are
on the back of this computer so the AC
adapter plug lights up when you're
charging it and it lights up white when
the battery is fully charged along the
back there's also four USB three slots
and HDMI and a mini display so I was
able to use this port to output 4k
resolution at 60 Hertz and lastly it's
got one of those combo microphone
headset jacks just make sure that your
headset that you're using supports this
so because this thing doesn't have a
built-in Ethernet port HP throws an
Ethernet dongle which I thought was a
pretty nice touch the dongle has a weird
rubber band that goes around it it can
come on and off but I couldn't really
figure out what it was for
so the left side of the notebook has no
ports it's simple and clean and the
right side of the notebook has that SD
slot that I mentioned before okay here's
the thing it's great that they put an SD
reader onto a gaming notebook I mean
some notebooks don't even have them
especially gaming notebooks like the
Razer Blade but the one they put in here
is really annoying to use you can't
insert a card unless he kind of lifts up
the note book and even then it's a bit
of a fumble remember how the notebook
tapers in towards the bottom right so
you can't see what you're doing unless
you put your head down to the notebook
level and kind of look underneath and
removing the card is even more difficult
so if you plan on getting this notebook
for photography or video use you'll
probably want to get an external reader
okay we're finally done with the
exterior stuff the trackpad feels really
nice it feels like glass and has a very
similar texture to the MacBook trackpad
which i think is like the de facto
standard for good trackpads it's also
really really big I think it's actually
the biggest I've seen it's bigger than
an iPhone 6 and it's only slightly
smaller than a moto X and the weird
thing is it doesn't actually track that
well it skips a bit and sometimes it
doesn't register inputs I don't know if
it's a software thing or a hardware
thing but overall it just feels kind of
janky but as a gaming notebook you may
not use it that often if you have your
mouse plugged in okay the keyboard
chicklet keyboard feels pretty good I
actually typed a lot of stuff from work
on this keyboard I got used to it
quickly so notice how there are six keys
on the left side of the keyboard so
these are programmable keys which are
kind of cool like you can set up macros
and stuff for them but if you notice it
shifts the entire keyboard to the right
so positioning feels a little bit off i
misclicked quite a few times because of
this so if you're trying to hit the
escape button just at a reflex you're
going to reach up and kind of hit the
top left of that area but that's where
that programmable p1 key is it happened
more often than I thought it would but
maybe that's just me and I really think
your mileage will vary depending on the
keyboard that you currently use the
other thing is in the bottom right
you'll see the up and down directional
keys they feel a little squash I've
mentioned this before but I like my up
arrows above my left and right keys but
aside from that the keyboard is really
quite good so you probably know the
backlighting on the keyboard of the omen
can change colors so HP includes some
software you can control the color of
various zones on the keyboard including
like you know the left side the right
side WASD keys you can change the
speaker's you can make the speakers
pulse to music and stuff like that it
all works really well but the novelty of
it wore off really quickly for me the
backlighting isn't as bright
you'd think it would be especially in
photos and in certain videos I actually
had to film this in the evening with the
lights turned down just to capture it
properly it's definitely not a bright
LED system I would say it's actually
dimmer than most keyboard backlighting
which could be a good thing or a bad
thing depending on what you're into so
this thing rocks a 15.6 inch 1080p
touchscreen 1920 by 1080 the colors are
really good and it's very bright I don't
have equipment to measure the brightness
but it's noticeably brighter than most
notebooks means I've used I think HP put
in a great screen for this notebook so
fan noise when this thing's idling it's
basically silent 20 decibels or just
basically the sound of your room when
the fans kick in it's surprisingly not
that loud it's like high 30s maybe 40
decibels so a little bit quieter than
some notebooks out there now in terms of
its thermal signature I really wish I
had my friends floor camera that I had
from the razorblade review okay remember
in that rubber rim I talked about in the
beginning this video so I ran some
benchmark programs if you leave the
notebook sitting regularly it actually
gets quite warm at the bottom doesn't
seem like it was as hot as a razor blade
but it's still pretty warm but the weird
thing is if you prop up the base of some
pencils or something just so that air
can flow through the bottom more readily
it gets so much less hot which is so
weird to me I'm like why didn't HP just
make a couple more holes on that RIM I
mean it didn't get that hot without
raising it but it was a lot cooler when
you propped it up a bit the speakers are
clear and the flashing lights are kind
of fun but they're not very loud which
is kind of surprising and disappointing
because the notebook has the whole Beats
Audio moniker to it but here's what they
sound like
okay let's talk about battery life
I thought the HP omen would have a
really bad battery life because it has
the same size battery as a dell inspiron
7000 with the 4k screen they both share
58 watt hour batteries and if you'll
remember my Inspiron review battery life
was not one of its strong points but
because this notebook the HP omen does
not have a 4k screen the battery life is
significantly better so on regular use
with just regular internet browsing just
using the computer regularly but full
screen on time four and a half hours
that's very impressive to me because I
mean this is what screen at almost full
brightness they advertised five and I
was getting four and a half so that's
pretty cool games hour and a half now
this is with heroes of the storm which
isn't a particularly graphically
intensive game but I think if you play a
game that has is more graphically
intense you'll probably get closer to an
hour but I tried this twice full full
charge max brightness basically max
volume one and a half hours playing here
to the storm so that's pretty cool and
the last test I did was just watching
movie straight from the drive so I
watched Game of Thrones three and a half
hours a little bit more than that but
three and a half hours which is also
pretty impressive to me okay gaming on
this thing this thing plays games well I
tried most of my games at 1920 by 1080
on high settings and some games on ultra
settings and every game ran really
really well like 60 to 90 frames per
second depending on the game and I think
the 860m is a really perfect match for
the 1080p screen the screen and the
video card feel really well balanced and
you're never tempted to run at a higher
resolution because well he just can't so
unlike other notebooks where I'm
constantly trying to find the balance
between higher resolution and
performance this thing you just kind of
set it and forget it at 1920 by 1080
every game that I tried ran really well
on it and I really liked that piece of
my final thoughts and the HP omen really
depends on the price that you're able to
purchase it for when HP first put this
out on the market they were asking 21 or
22 hundred bucks for a fully SPECT out
version and I mean that's expensive
that's razorblade expensive but over
time they've put this thing on sale a
couple times and right now you can get a
medium SPECT one with 16 gigs of ram 4
gigs of video ram for 15 1600 bucks to
me that's very well SPECT and very
reasonably
so if you're a gamer and you're going to
put this to use I think that's a very
good option for you as for the design I
think people will be torn I think some
people love it and I think some people
hate it just because some of the design
elements are a little bit flashy and if
it's not your cup of tea you might find
it a little abrasive personally I think
it's really cool but it's a little too
colorful and edgy for me right now I
think if I was younger I'd go crazy for
it
but currently I like my stuff a little
more subtle and boring to be honest yeah
that's the end of the review I hope you
guys liked it if you liked it give me
some thumbs and if you love to give you
some subs it's been nice I'll see you
guys next time